**This is Guillermo Gallardo class project repository**

# Instructions

To replicate this project, navigate to the products/manuscript directory and open the Manuscript.qmd file. Click on *Render* to process the project and generate the Word document. Below, you'll find a breakdown of the various folders containing sources, code, images, and tables. Ensure that R is installed on your computer, and having some knowledge of how to clone repositories will simplify the process.


# Template structure and content


* All code goes into the `code` folder and subfolders. Currently, there are 3 sub-folders that do different parts of an analysis. he first folder, named *eda-code*, is dedicated to exploratory data analysis and includes tables and plots created using the HRprocesseddata.rds file. The second folder, *processing-code*, focuses on data cleaning processes. The third folder, *analysis-code*, contains the code for the project's analysis phase.

* All data goes into the `data` folder and subfolders. Currently, there are 2 sub-folders that contain the HR dataset used for this project. The first folder is called *raw-data* and it contains the raw data, including an Excel file named "IBM HR Analytics Data." The second folder is called *processed-data* and it houses the processed data in an RDS format, with the file named HRprocesseddata. This file is extensively used throughout the project for data manipulation and exploratory data analysis (EDA).

* The `products` folder contains the main file that is used to create this project. In this folder, you will find the *manuscript* file, which you can render to export a Word document containing all the data and plots.

* The `results` folder contains automatically/code generated output. This includes figures, tables saved as serialized R data (`.Rds`) files, computed values and other outputs. All content in these folders should be automatically generated by code. Manually generated results should be avoided as much as possible.


* There are multiple special files in the repo.
  * `readme.md`: this file contains instructions or details about the folder it
  is located in. You are reading the project-level `README.md` file right now. There is a `readme` in almost every folder.
  * `HR-Turnover-Analysis.Rproj` is a file that tells RStudio that this is the main folder for a project. Rename if you want.
  * a few "hidden" files and folders (they start with a `.` and depending on how your OS is configured, you might not see them). Those are for R/RStudio and Git/GitHub and you can ignore them.




# Package management

It is recommended to use [renv](https://rstudio.github.io/renv/index.html) to manage R packages and increase chances of future reproducibility. This is required if you are using the template as part of a research project for our group. Otherwise, you can decide to implement `renv` or not. This can happen at any stage, though earlier in the project is generally better.

If you plan to use `renv`, start by reading [the introduction to `renv` article](https://rstudio.github.io/renv/articles/renv.html) so you know how to use it.


# Getting started

This is a Github template repository. The best way to get it and start using it is [by following these steps.](https://help.github.com/en/articles/creating-a-repository-from-a-template)

Once you got the repository, you can check out the examples by executing them in order. First run the processing code, which will produce the processed data. Then run the analysis scripts, which will take the processed data and produce some results. Then you can run the manuscript, poster and slides example files in any order. Those files pull in the generated results and display them. These files also pull in references from the `bibtex` file and format them according to the CSL style.
